Feature Proposal: Playlist Sorter
November 29th 2019

OBJECTIVE
In the Jammming app, provide controls to change the order of song titles on a playlist before saving
the playlist.

BACKGROUND 
Users enter a search term into the search field of the Jammming app and 
get a list of song titles in return.
Their next task is to go through the list and click song titles they want to add to a playlist.
Almost always, they go through the list of search results from top to bottom. As a result, titles 
that they click get added to the playlist in the same order in which they appear on the list of search 
results. This might not be the order the user wants the titles to played in.
Currently, the only way to change the order of titles on a playlist of the Jammming app is to remove 
the title, which effects that the following titles move upwards one position on the list. The user can 
then re-add the title, in which case it would be appended at the end of the list. This way of 
changing the order is very cumbersome because it might involve numerous steps of removing and re-adding 
titles before the order is as intended. The number of steps increases with the number of positions 
a user wants move a title. 
It would therefore be helpful if there was an easier way to change the order of selected titles on a  
playlist before the playlist is saved.

TECHNICAL DESIGN

The intended design is as follows:
If the user clicks a title already on the playlist in the right half of the browser window, the 
background color of the title changes to mark the selection and two buttons appear at the very end 
of the title line (when read from left to right). The buttons are vertically aligned; the upper button 
shows an upward-pointing arrow, whereas the lower button shows a downward-pointing arrow. If one 
of the buttons is clicked, the selected title moves one position up or down on the list. This way, 
the title can be moved to the desired position with a number of repeated clicks.

Edge cases: The first title on the list, when selected, must not show the button to move the title upwards, or the 
button must be disabled and the disablement must be indicated visually (button grayed out). Likewise, 
the last title on the playlist must not show a downward-pointing button, or this button must be dis-
abled. Again, the disablement must be indicated visually.

How to realize this design:
Several React components of the Jammming app need to be extended.
The App component must be extended by two methods, one that moves a title upwards, and one that moves 
a title downwards.
The tracks are array elements (it's the playlistTracks array), so what has to be done when one of these new functions is invoked is 
to change the position of the selected title or element in the array. In other words, we need to change
the index of the selected element in that the index number is decreased or increased by 1.
This can be achieved in plain JavaScript by the following function:

function array_move(arr, old_index, new_index) {
    while (old_index < 0) {
        old_index += arr.length;
    }
    while (new_index < 0) {
        new_index += arr.length;
    }
    if (new_index >= arr.length) {
        var k = new_index - arr.length + 1;
        while (k--) {
            arr.push(undefined);
        }
    }
    arr.splice(new_index, 0, arr.splice(old_index, 1)[0]);
    return arr; // for testing purposes
};
This function is taken from StackOverflow (https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5306680/move-an-array-element-from-one-array-position-to-another);

In addition, the TrackList and PlayList components must be extended so that the two new functions 
become available (attributes must be added to the rendered JSX, so that these functions can be invoked).

Finally, the Track component must be extended so that the two buttons are rendered when a title 
on the Playlist is selected. Maybe the renderAction() can be extended for this purpose. 
The change of the title background can be achieved by adding an appropriate selector to the 
accompanying CSS file (Track.css).


CAVEATS

I can see no caveats with the proposed solution.

There is one alternative to the proposed solution, and that is to let users save a playlist first 
and let them edit it thereafter. This would require more or less the same functionality as 
outlined above. 

The alternative was discarded because it means that there is an additional stop for the user: She or 
he needs to locate the saved playlist and then edit it. 

If the alternative were to be included in the Jammming app, it would even mean a much higher 
development effort because the development team would have to provide new UI elements and the 
functionality to locate and retrieve saved playlists.

